>> Will Sentance: We are now
able to generate an object
that does not have functions on it.
And user 2 would be very similar,
again, with the specific data for
user 2, but no functions copied on it,
but they're still available.
This would be it.
It'd be pretty nice, but we wanna produce
a paid user that is just like a user.
But a little bit more specific.
It has some bonus functions or it says
here has some bonus properties, but
also some bonus functions that are gonna
work on those bonus properties, perfect.
Let's see if we can do it.
Right hand side here, here we go.
Here we go, I'm just putting this here
to show me what the right hand side.
Who should I call on?
David, excellent help me out David.
We declare a class which is
really a function object combo.
Give me a second while I put it on here,
name paid use creator,
hold on, paid user
creator which is
a function plus an object.
Hold on.
Hold on, yeah, the extends bit.
Shit, okay.
>> Speaker 2: [LAUGH]
>> Will Sentance: Now,
it get's interesting.
I'm gonna use a different colored pen for
everything that extends does.
Okay.
>> Will Sentance: Ain't got
many pens left at this point.
Thank you ma'am.
Should I use orange?
Yeah.
I shall only use red.
Yes, I quite like that sort of
complimentary to the pink for class.
I use red for
everything that extends is going to do.
>> Will Sentance: Okay,
first let's just get the regular stuff.
So it's a function object combo, so
it's function is subtitled, constructor,
there it is, and
it has a property on its object portion,
prototype, we know this is our
regular stuff, which is itself
an object, into which we're going
to stick what function, David?
>> Speaker 2: Increase balance.
>> Will Sentance: Increase balance.
And that's done for us now rather than
having to manually assign it there.
It's just done by putting it in
the class structure is the function.
Okay, so what does extends do?
Extends user creator.
Is going to do two major things.
We want any object that comes out
of running paid user creator,
which will be paid user one.
We want that paid user one to have
a bond to this set of functions.
Well, that makes sense.
We know that, that's gonna happen by
using new keyword, running pages create.
It'll get a bond automatically to this
set of functions in the proto reference.
No problem.
But we want that, we want that object to
also have access to this set of functions.
So what, when it goes looking in here for
say name, do we want to happen, Seth?
When that object doesn't even say
name in here, doesn't find it and
we wanted to go looking?
>> Speaker 3: It's proto
link should link up to it.
>> Will Sentance: Perfect,
red means extends does it?
So the first thing extends
does is set that proto
as reference up to
user-creator- dot-prototype.
No problem.
We did it manually before dot-prototype.
We did it manually before,
if you remember.
Using the greater prototypes setting
the object on the prototype,
replacing the whole object and
making it have a link to its proto
up to that user creator prototype.
We did manually before.
Now, it extends it for us.
It extends, automates it for us and
the bond is made up to there.
With the help extends, but
extends does something else.
We want to, when we run page
user creator with a new keyword,
we want to run the constructor portion,
that we then want it
to use the work we did earlier of
assigning properties in user creator,
is to use that to help create the object
with the right properties on it.
Now, remember we did that earlier.
We used user creator with call,
and then we assigned it this.
We ain't gonna need to do that anymore.
Now inside of the function,
the constructor bit,
that when we run paid user creator,
create our object with the help of the new
keyword, we're gonna run super, and
super is gonna say go run
the user creator bit.
It's gonna be a little bit
finicky how it does it.
We're gonna see in a second.
The spec explains it.
I've only ever seen my favorite
2ality explain it explicitly.
Otherwise no one else explains.
>> Will Sentance: The super is gonna go
and take us over to the user creator and
run it's function to create our object.
And by the way, unlike here, when we
made the object inside pages creator,
and then we mutated it one layer out,
we're actually gonna make the object,
wait for this.
We're gonna make the object
inside of user creator.
But it's gonna have its proto auto-set
to pages creator's functions.
We'll see in a second.
But that means there's one other
thing that extends does, I can't.
>> Will Sentance: I'm not sure
I should even tell this, okay,
it does this, it does this, it does this.
It sets paid user creator, the function.
>> Will Sentance: It's proto.
>> Will Sentance: To the user
creator function object combo.
To user creator,
let me just extend this down a bit here.
It's a joke.
That's true.
No, no.
No,
please please don't all off at once at my
drink, okay as extended down slightly.
The second thing it does is we have
another property on pages of creator.
Proto that normally would just
link to function-dot-prototype,
where all the shared, anything that
a function has access to will be.
This is the moment where we go,
a-ha, and just give up.
But it links up to user creator.
We're gonna see what this
is gonna let us do, people.
Is that when we run paid user creator,
the function,
it's gonna create us an object inside.
We're gonna call super, and
that super is gonna go.
What am I?
What do I need to go and run?
It's gonna go look at proto,
see user creator and go and run it.
Creator object.
I promise we're gonna do it in a second
Seth, I really wanna dive into this piece.
>> Speaker 4: Okay I kinda wanna
extend on this piece a little bit.
So if you left off constructor on paid
user creator, it's gonna look in proto for
constructor, and
just run constructor directly.
>> Will Sentance: That's a different
factor, if you leave off constructor it's
gonna automatically put in a very simple
constructor that just returns and object.
So look, my God.
Look at what our sub.
They call this a subclass, right?
So not a base class, but a subclass.
Look at what it has on it.
Is that just from?
That was just from.
And everything in red
was added by extends.
One portion ensures that the objects
that come out of running this function
have access to these functions.
That's what the proto bit on
the collection of functions ensures.
The other portion, the other consequence
of extends ensures that the super,
which when we run page as a creator,
we're going to run makes us go and
run user creator to make the object there.
And that link is stored in the proto.
That is where it's stored.
If you overwrite proto, then the super
goes [SOUND] I'm not there anymore.
When you call super inside of that it
is absolutely heading to proto and
going to look up here.
So if you overwrite this with null
that super ain't gonna do anything.
Okay, let's see it play out.
This is a lot of laying out,
we're gonna see it play out, and
that should become a little bit clearer.
All right, left-hand side here Chris,
what are we doing?
We've set up our whole paid user class,
with it is an extension of user creator,
now we're gonna declare what?
>> Speaker 2: A constant of paid user.
>> Will Sentance: Yeah perfect of paid-
>> Speaker 2: User one.
>> Will Sentance: User one,
which we don't initialize anything yet,
while we go off and call.
>> Speaker 2: Paid user creator.
>> Will Sentance: Paid user creator.